                              IBM Systems
                 IBM ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit, Linux Edition
                             Readme

Version 2.21

(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2010.  All Rights Reserved.
This Program is licensed under the terms of the agreement
located in the docs directory from the Program's
installation root (default is /opt/ibm/sgtk/docs/licenses/).
Additional licenses for the use of System Enablement Packs are
licensed under the terms of the agreement located in the packages
(default is /sgdeploy/updates/uxsp/ ).
  By installing, copying, accessing, or using the Program, you agree to
the terms of this agreement.  If you do not agree to the terms, please
uninstall the software and return it to IBM or the reseller from whom
you acquired the software for a refund, if any.

+---- Note ------------------------------------------------------------+

Before using this information and the product it supports, read the
information in 6.0, "Notices".

+----------------------------------------------------------------------+



This edition applies to version 2.21 of IBM ServerGuide Scripting
Toolkit, Linux Edition and to all subsequent releases and modifications until
otherwise indicated in new editions.

Copyright International Business Machines Corporation 2010.
US Government Users Restricted Rights -- Use, duplication or disclosure
restricted by GSA ADP Schedule Contract with IBM Corp.


Contents

1.0 About ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit, Linux Edition
  1.1 Supported Deployment Scenarios
2.0 Installation and upgrade information
3.0 News
4.0 Known problems and limitations
5.0 Information resources
  5.1 Documentation
  5.2 Web resources
6.0 Notices
  6.1 Third-party license terms and conditions, notices, and information
  6.2 Trademarks

1.0 About ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit, Linux Edition

The IBM ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit is a collection of system-configuration tools
   and installation scripts that you can use to deploy software to your IBM servers
   in a repeatable, predictable manner.

1.1 Supported Deployment Scenarios

The ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit, Linux Edition
supports the following deployment scenarios:

    * Bootable media via CD, USB Key, PXE
    * Bootable media via CD, USB Key, PXE with network share
    * Remote deployment via Remote Supervisor Adapter II
    * Remote deployment via BladeCenter Management Module
    * Remote deployment via BladeCenter Advanced Management Module
    * Remote deployment via Integrated Management Module

2.0 News

The following changes were made in this version of the IBM ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit,Linux Edition:

	* Linux Scripting Toolkit added support for Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 6.

	* Linux Scripting Toolkit added support for network based installations of the following Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) operating systems:
   		- SuSe Linux Enterprise Server 11 SP1 x64
   		- Red Hat Enterprise Server 6 x64
   
  
3.0 Installation and upgrade information

Complete installation instructions, including other system requirements,
are provided in the IBM ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit, Linux Edition 
User's Guide.

4.0 Known problems and limitations

The following known problems and limitations exist in the
IBM ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit, Linux Edition.  For additional information
about known problems and limitations in the IBM ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit,
Linux Edition, please consult the IBM ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit, Linux
Edition User's Guide.

* Best Practice for performing UEFI-aware operating system deployments

  When preparing to use Linux Scripting Toolkit to perform native uefi operating system deployments, the following actions should be taken on the target system.
   1. If the system contains an existing UEFI-aware operating system, the boot option in the Boot Manager should be removed as this entry 
      will become invalid during the deployment.  The boot entry can be found in Boot Manager by pressing F1 to enter setup during system boot.
   2. If possible, update the system firmware to the current levels. 
   3. If RAID adapters are present in the system, ensure the adapters are uEFI compliant.
   4. Check the Boot Order for the system to ensure that Hard Disk 0 is listed before PXE.

  Please consult IBM Serverproven for compatibility of installing and running an operating system in native UEFI mode.

* Linux Scripting Toolkit UI fails to load on RHEL6 64-bit

  In order to run Linux Toolkit on a system running RHEL6 64-bit, compatibility 2.96-RH standard C++ libraries  
  (compat-libstdc++-296-2.96-144.el6.i686) must be installed.

* Director agent installations might fail on RHEL6

  Director agent installations might fail if the operating system is not supported by the agent.  Please consult the operating system support for your version of IBM director agent.

* Native uEFI installations fails to start the os installation process

  When performing a native uEFI operating system installation, the system might fail to boot the hard disk after Linux Scripting Toolkit processes are complete.  This can occur
  when the system fails to boot the partition with bootx64.efi automatically. The workaround is dependent upon the particular UEFI system.  Refer the system manual for instructions
  on booting a file on the disk.
  
  For example, for most IBM systems, to work around this problem, create a new boot entry for bootx64.efi and continue the installation using that option.  
  Follow the steps below to continue the installation:
	1.	Power on the system, and, when prompted, press F1 to enter setup.
	2.	Select Boot Manager.
        3.      Select Boot from File.
	4.	Select the GUID Partition Tables (GPT) System Partition where the name is OS_Install.
	5.	Select EFI.
	6.	Select Boot.
	7.	Select bootx64.efi.
  
  NOTE: If the os installation completes and the system does not boot into the operating system, go to the Start Options of the F1 setup and select the 
        boot entry for the operating system.

* uEFI operating system installations not booting from hard drive

  During native uEFI operating system installations, the target system might fail to boot from the hard drive after Linux Scripting Toolkit processes are complete. 
  This can occur if the target system does not automatically boot the bootx64.efi file from the drive.  These systems are not supported by Linux Scripting Toolkit.

  This limitation affects the following systems:

    * System x3620 M3, type 7376
    * System x3630 M3, type 7377
    * System x3755 M3, type 7164


* Network installations on IPv6 networks might fail
  
  Linux Scripting Toolkit only supports SLES11 SP 1 for IPv6 network installations. When performing 
  a network based installation, please use "ipv6=1" (accept v4 and v6) or "ipv6only=1" (only v6) as boot parameters.  For 
  more information on deployment, consult the SLES11 SP1 release notes.
  

* Unable to perform operating system installations using link-local addresses

  Link-local addresses are not supported for network deployments.


* Network is unreachable after reboot of SLES installation
 
  When using static addresses for deployment for SLES, you might encounter an error message stating the the network is
  unreachable after the system reboots during the 'Perform Installation' phase.

  To work around this problem, navigate to a different console to set the static ip address using the ifconfig command. 
  After setting the address, click 'Retry' to continue the installation.
  
* Firmware update(s) might fail for Emulex adapters

  In the preboot environment, firmware updates for Emulex might fail.  The affected adapters are:

	-Emulex Virtual Fabric Adapter (CFFh) for IBM BladeCenter(49Y4235)
	-Emulex 10GbE Custom Adapter for IBM System x(49Y4200)
	-Emulex 10GbE Server Adapter for IBM System x(49Y4250)

  To work around this problem, use IBM ToolsCenter Bootable Media Creator from IBM.com to create a new bootable
  image with the firmware packages to perform the update.

* VMware ESX Server 4.1 installation hangs at "Starting vmkernel initialization"

  When performing a VMware ESX 4.1 installation on a system with a MAX5 memory expansion module, the installation
  might hang at the initial screen.

  To avoid this problem, you can add the kernel parameter "allowInterleavedNUMAnodes=TRUE" parameter during the Workflow 
  Creation and OS installation task phases.

    In the OS Installation tasks, a new kickstart file is needed for this deployment.
     1. Create a new os installation task based on the esx4.ks.
     2. Modify the new os installation task to add the kernel parameter.
       a. Find the following line in the task:
        	bootloader --location=mbr 
      b. Edit the line by adding the kernel parameter:
        	bootloader --location=mbr --append="allowInterleavedNUMAnodes=TRUE"
    
   In the OS install section of the workflow, a field is provided for optional kernel parameters.
     1. Insert "allowInterleavedNUMAnodes=TRUE" in the box for kernel parameters.
 
* Acquiring System Enablement Packs fails to download from IBM website

  When acquiring System Enablement Packs(SEPs), you might encounter a message stating that the process was unable to acquire the SEP.

  To work around this problem, download the System Enablement Pack manually from IBM.com. You will find the SEPs at the following link:
   http://www-947.ibm.com/support/entry/portal/docdisplay?brand=5000016&lndocid=TOOL-SEP

   1. From the link, download the following packages where xxx is the version number:

      ibm_utl_tsep_xxx_anyos_x86-64.zip
      ibm_utl_tsep_xxx_anyos_x86-64.xml

   2. Copy the packages to a local folder on the Linux source server.
   3. From the main menu, click Supported Systems.
   4. Click Acquire new SEPs to begin.
   5. Enter a machine type for which to acquire SEPs. 
   6. From the Source media section, select 'Acquire from local folder'.
   7. Insert the local folder which contains the SEP that was downloaded from the IBM website.


* UEFI operating system deployment does not boot after deployment

  After an native uefi operating system deployment, the system might be unable to detect the boot manager.
  To correct this issue, following these steps:
  For example, for Red Hat Enterprise(RHEL) 6, the steps are as follows:

   1. Power on the system, and, when prompted, press F1 to enter setup.
   2. Select Boot Manager.
   3. Select Boot from File.
   4. Select the GUID Partition Tables (GPT) System Partition where you installed RHEL 6.
   5. Select EFI.
   6. Select EFI.
   7. Select redhat
   8. Select grub.efi

* VMware installation might fail on BladeCenter HS21 Type 7995

  VMware installations might fail on blades with the error message "sh: can't open /postinstall/runtk.sh".
  To work around this problem, you can remove the modular flash drive from the system or update the answer file (esx4.ks) to not use
  the firstdisk for installation.


5.0 Information resources

You can find additional information about IBM ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit, Linux Edition
Installer in the product documentation and on the World Wide Web.

5.1 Documentation

The following documentation resource provides additional information
about ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit, Linux Edition.

In addition to these release notes, you can find information about how
to use Scripting Toolkit, v2.21 in the
IBM ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit, Linux Edition User's Guide.

This publication is available in the IBM System x(TM) and BladeCenter®
Tools Center on the Web at
http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/toolsctr/v1r0/index.jsp?topic=/com.ibm.xseries.tools.doc/overview.html


5.2 Web resources

The following Web pages provide resources for understanding, using, and
troubleshooting IBM System x and systems-management tools.

IBM Electronic Service Agent (ESA)
   http://www.ibm.com/support/electronicwww.ibm.com/support/electronic
   The Electronic Service Agent is a no-charge software tool that resides on your
   IBM System x systems to monitor hardware events and transmit system inventory
   information to IBM. With these functions, this software can proactively monitor,
   track and capture system inventory and hardware errors.

IBM ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit page
   http://www.ibm.com/systems/support/supportsite.wss/docdisplay?lndocid=SERV-TOOLKIT&brandind=5000008
   The ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit is a collection of system-configuration tools
   and installation scripts that you can use to deploy software to your IBM servers
   in a repeatable, predictable manner.

IBM System x and BladeCenter Tools Center
   http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/toolsctr/v1r0
   The System x and BladeCenter Tools Center provides information on best practices
   for updating BIOS, firmware, and device drivers on your IBM System x and BladeCenter hardware,
   and links to IBM tools for deploying, updating, monitoring, and diagnosing your hardware.

IBM Remote Deployment Manager page
   http://www.ibm.com/systems/management/director/about/director52/extensions/rdm.html
   Remote Deployment Manager (RDM) helps automate deployment tasks such as initial operating
   system installation, BIOS updates, and disposal of retired systems for both IBM and non-IBM systems.

IBM ServerGuide page
   http://www.ibm.com/systems/management/serverguide/
   This Web page provides an overview of the ServerGuide.

IBM ServerProven® page
   http://www.ibm.com/servers/eserver/serverproven/compat/us/
   This Web page provides compatibility information about hardware, software, and middleware.

IBM UpdateXpress Server Matrix
   http://www.ibm.com/systems/support/supportsite.wss/docdisplay?lndocid=SERV-XPRESS&brandind=5000008
   This Web page provides information on available UpdateXpress System Packs, archived system packs, 
   and UpdateXpress System Pack Installers

IBM Support page
   http://www.ibm.com/systems/support/
   This is the IBM Support Web site for IBM hardware and systems-management software.

IBM Systems Management Software: Download/Electronic Support page
   http://www.ibm.com/pc/us/eserver/xseries/systems_management/dwnl.html
   Use this Web page to download IBM systems-management software, including the ServerGuide Scripting Toolkit.

IBM UpdateXpress page
   http://www.ibm.com/systems/management/xpress/
   This Web page provides an overview of UpdateXpress. It also contains links to pages from which
   you can download UpdateXpress, order an UpdateXpress CD, or purchase a subscription from a vendor other than IBM.

IBM xSeries Systems Management page
   http://www.ibm.com/systems/management/
   This Web page provides an overview of IBM systems-management software.

6.0 Notices

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION PROVIDES THIS PUBLICATION "AS IS" 
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


This information was developed for products and services offered in the
U.S.A.

IBM may not offer the products, services, or features discussed in this
document in other countries. Consult your local IBM representative for
information on the products and services currently available in your
area. Any reference to an IBM product, program, or service is not
intended to state or imply that only that IBM product, program, or
service may be used. Any functionally equivalent product, program, or
service that does not infringe any IBM intellectual property right may
be used instead. However, it is the user's responsibility to evaluate
and verify the operation of any non-IBM product, program, or service.

IBM may have patents or pending patent applications covering subject
matter described in this document. The furnishing of this document does
not grant you any license to these patents. You can send license
inquiries, in writing, to: 

IBM Director of Licensing
IBM Corporation
North Castle Drive
Armonk, NY 10504-1785
U.S.A. 

For license inquiries regarding double-byte (DBCS) information, contact
the IBM Intellectual Property Department in your country or send
inquiries, in writing, to: 

IBM World Trade Asia Corporation
Licensing
2-31 Roppongi 3-chome, Minato-ku
Tokyo 106-0032, Japan 

The following paragraph does not apply to the United Kingdom or any
other country where such provisions are inconsistent with local law:
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION PROVIDES THIS PUBLICATION
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Some states do not allow disclaimer of express or implied warranties in
certain transactions, therefore, this statement may not apply to you.

This information could include technical inaccuracies or typographical
errors. Changes are periodically made to the information herein; these
changes will be incorporated in new editions of the publication. IBM may
make improvements and/or changes in the product(s) and/or the program(s)
described in this publication at any time without notice.

Any references in this information to non-IBM Web sites are provided for
convenience only and do not in any manner serve as an endorsement of
those Web sites. The materials at those Web sites are not part of the
materials for this IBM product and use of those Web sites is at your own
risk.

IBM may use or distribute any of the information you supply in any way
it believes appropriate without incurring any obligation to you.

Licensees of this program who wish to have information about it for the
purpose of enabling: (i) the exchange of information between
independently created programs and other programs (including this one)
and (ii) the mutual use of the information which has been exchanged,
should contact: 

IBM Director of Licensing
IBM Corporation
North Castle Drive
Armonk, NY 10504-1785
U.S.A. 

Such information may be available, subject to appropriate terms and
conditions, including in some cases, payment of a fee.

The licensed program described in this document and all licensed
material available for it are provided by IBM under terms of the IBM
Customer Agreement, IBM International Program License Agreement or any
equivalent agreement between us.

Any performance data contained herein was determined in a controlled
environment. Therefore, the results obtained in other operating
environments may vary significantly. Some measurements may have been
made on development-level systems and there is no guarantee that these
measurements will be the same on generally available systems.
Furthermore, some measurements may have been estimated through
extrapolation. Actual results may vary. Users of this document should
verify the applicable data for their specific environment.

Information concerning non-IBM products was obtained from the suppliers
of those products, their published announcements or other publicly
available sources. IBM has not tested those products and cannot confirm
the accuracy of performance, compatibility or any other claims related
to non-IBM products. Questions on the capabilities of non-IBM products
should be addressed to the suppliers of those products.

All statements regarding IBM's future direction or intent are subject to
change or withdrawal without notice, and represent goals and objectives
only.

All IBM prices shown are IBM's suggested retail prices, are current and
are subject to change without notice. Dealer prices may vary.

This information is for planning purposes only. The information herein
is subject to change before the products described become available.

This information contains examples of data and reports used in daily
business operations. To illustrate them as completely as possible, the
examples include the names of individuals, companies, brands, and
products. All of these names are fictitious and any similarity to the
names and addresses used by an actual business enterprise is entirely
coincidental.

COPYRIGHT LICENSE:

This information contains sample application programs in source
language, which illustrate programming techniques on various operating
platforms. You may copy, modify, and distribute these sample programs in
any form without payment to IBM, for the purposes of developing, using,
marketing or distributing application programs conforming to the
application programming interface for the operating platform for which
the sample programs are written. These examples have not been thoroughly
tested under all conditions. IBM, therefore, cannot guarantee or imply
reliability, serviceability, or function of these programs.

Each copy or any portion of these sample programs or any derivative
work, must include a copyright notice as follows:

© your company name) (year). Portions of this code are derived from IBM
Corp. Sample Programs.

© Copyright IBM Corp. _enter the year or years_. All rights reserved.

If you are viewing this information softcopy, the photographs and color
illustrations may not appear.

6.1 Third-party license terms and conditions, notices, and information

The license agreement for this product refers you to this file for
details concerning terms and conditions applicable to third party
software code included in this product, and for certain notices and
other information IBM must provide to you under its license to certain
software code. The relevant terms and conditions, notices and other
information are provided or referenced below. Please note that any
non-English version of the licenses below is unofficial and is provided
to you for your convenience only. The English version of the licenses
below, provided as part of the English version of this file, is the
official version.

Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any other agreement you may
have with IBM or any of its related or affiliated entities (collectively
"IBM"), the third party software code identified below are "Excluded
Components" and are subject to the following terms and conditions: 
*  The Excluded Components are provided on an "AS IS" basis
*  IBM DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL EXPRESS AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND
   CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE EXCLUDED COMPONENTS INCLUDING, BUT NOT
   LIMITED TO, THE WARRANTY OF NON-INFRINGEMENT OR INTERFERENCE AND THE
   IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
   A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
*  IBM will not be liable to you or indemnify you for any claims related
   to the Excluded Components.
*  IBM will not be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special,
   exemplary, punitive or consequential damages with respect to the
   Excluded Components.

6.2 Trademarks

IBM, the IBM logo, and ibm.com® are trademarks or registered trademarks
of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States,
other countries, or both. If these and other IBM trademarked terms are
marked on their first occurrence in this information with a trademark
symbol (® or (TM)), these symbols indicate U.S. registered or common law
trademarks owned by IBM at the time this information was published. Such
trademarks may also be registered or common law trademarks in other
countries. A current list of IBM trademarks is available on the Web at
Copyright and trademark information (www.ibm.com/legal/copytrade.shtml).


Some jurisdictions do not allow disclaimer of express or implied warranties in certain
 transactions, therefore, this statement may not apply to you. This information could 
include technical inaccuracies or typographical errors. Changes are periodically made 
to the information herein; these changes will be incorporated in new editions of the publication.
 IBM may make improvements and/or changes in the product(s) and/or the program(s) described 
in this publication at any time without notice.

The following terms are trademarks of the IBM Corporation in the United States, other countries, or both:

BladeCenter

eServer

ServeRAID

ServerGuide

ServerProven

System x

TotalStorage

xSeries

IBM is a trademark of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States, other countries, or both.

Intel is a trademark or registered trademark of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.

Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds in the united states, other countries, or both.

Microsoft, Windows, and the Windows logo are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States, other countries, or both.

Other company, product, or service names may be trademarks or service
marks of others.

