                              IBM Systems
                 IBM UpdateXpress System Pack Installer
                                 Readme

Version 9.63

Contents

Chapter 1. About UpdateXpress System Pack Installer
Chapter 2. Information resources
  2.1 Documentation
  2.2 Web resources
Chapter 3. Installation and upgrade information
Chapter 4. Requirements
  4.1 VMWare ESXi Support
Chapter 5. Known limitations, problems, and workarounds
  5.1 Limitations and problems
  5.2 Workarounds
Chapter 6. Notices
  6.1 Trademarks

Chapter 1. About UpdateXpress System Pack Installer

IBM UpdateXpress System Pack Installer is a software application that
applies UpdateXpress System Packs and individual updates to your system.



UpdateXpress System Packs contain Windows and Linux firmware and device
driver updates. UpdateXpress System Pack Installer allows you to acquire
and deploy these updates, as well as compare updates, and is available
with the UpdateXpress System Pack.

Chapter 2. Information resources

You can find additional information about IBM UpdateXpress System Pack
Installer in the product documentation and on the World Wide Web.





2.1 Documentation

The following documentation resource provides additional information
about UpdateXpress System Pack Installer.



In addition to these release notes, you can find information about how
to use UpdateXpress System Pack Installer, v9.63 in the IBM UpdateXpress
System Pack Installer User's Guide.

This publication is available in the IBM System x?and BladeCenter?
Tools Center on the Web at
publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/toolsctr/v1r0/topic/uxspi/uxlite_userguide.pdf.

This documentation is available in Portable Document Format (PDF). You
need Adobe Acrobat Reader or Xpdf to view it. If you need the Adobe
Acrobat Reader, you can download it directly from Adobe at
www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep2.html.

2.2 Web resources

The following pages provide resources for understanding, using, and
troubleshooting IBM System x and systems-management tools.



Websites
*  IBM ToolsCenter for System x and BladeCenter 

   www.ibm.com/systems/support/supportsite.wss/docdisplay?lndocid=TOOL-CENTER&brandind=5000016

    

   View this website to download tools that support IBM System x and IBM
   BladeCenter products.

*  UpdateXpress 

   www.ibm.com/systems/support/supportsite.wss/docdisplay?lndocid=SERV-XPRESS&brandind=5000016

    

   View this website to download the tool, UpdateXpress System Pack
   libraries and tools, including UpdateXpress System Pack Installer.

*  Support for IBM BladeCenter 

   www-304.ibm.com/systems/support/supportsite.wss/brandmain?brandind=5000020

    

   View this website to find information about online technical support,
   downloads and drivers, and RETAIN?tips, and to provide feedback
   about IBM BladeCenter products.

*  Support for IBM System x 

   http://www-947.ibm.com/support/entry/portal/Overview?brandind=Hardware~Systems~System_x

    

   View this website to find information about online technical support,
   downloads and drivers, and RETAIN tips, and to provide feedback about
   IBM System x products.

*  IBM ServerProven?

   www.ibm.com/servers/eserver/serverproven/compat/us/

    

   View this website to learn about hardware compatibility of IBM System
   x and IBM BladeCenter systems with IBM applications and middleware.

*  IBM System x Firmware Update Best Practices 

   http://www.ibm.com/support/entry/portal/docdisplay?lndocid=MIGR-5082923&brandind=5000008

    

   View this white paper for more information on best practices for
   updating System x firmware.



Forums
*  IBM System x Forum 

   www.ibm.com/developerworks/forums/forum.jspa?forumID=740

    

   View this website on ibm.com?to learn about various forums that are
   available to discuss technology-related and product-related issues
   pertaining to IBM System x hardware and software products. This
   website includes a link for obtaining the forum using a Rich Site
   Summary (RSS) feed.

*  IBM BladeCenter Forum 

   www.ibm.com/developerworks/forums/forum.jspa?forumID=819

    

   View this website on ibm.com to learn about various forums that are
   available to discuss technology-related and product-related issues
   pertaining to IBM BladeCenter hardware and software products. This
   website includes a link for obtaining the forum using a Rich Site
   Summary (RSS) feed.

Chapter 3. Installation and upgrade information



Complete installation instructions, including supported hardware and
operating systems, are provided in the IBM System x ToolsCenter
information center on the Web at
publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/toolsctr/v1r0/topic/uxspi/uspi_r_requirements.html.

Chapter 4. Requirements

4.1 VMWare ESXi Support

Table. VMware ESXi Support (IBM customized image)

|VMware ESXi Version| 4.1 U1 and | 4.1 U3 | 5.0.x, 5.1.x | 5.5  | 5.5 U1 |
|                   |    4.1 U2  |        |   and Patch  |      |        |
|uEFI/iMM/DSA/FPGA  |     Y      |    Y   |      Y       |  Y   |   Y    |
|LSI                |     N      |    N   |      Y       |  N   |   Y    |
|Broadcom           |     N      |    N   |      Y       |  N   |   Y    |
|QLogic CNA         |     Y      |    Y   |      Y       |  N   |   Y    |
|QLogic FC          |    N/A     |   N/A  |      Y       |  N   |   Y    |
|Emulex             |     N      |    Y   |      Y       |  N   |   Y    |
|Brocade            |     Y      |    Y   |      Y       |  N   |   Y    |


Chapter 5. Known limitations, problems, and workarounds

The following limitations, problems, and workarounds are applicable to
IBM UpdateXpress System Pack Installer, v9.63.

5.1 Limitations and problems

The following limitations are applicable to IBM UpdateXpress System Pack
Installer.


Host must be discovered by MegaRAID Storage Manager before UXSPi can upgrade 
MegaRAID Storage Manager to a newer version
         For MegaRAID Storage Manager (MSM) to work correctly, the supported 
         SAS/SATA controller must be plugged into the machine, and the driver 
         and firmware must be flashed for the controller. With MegaRAID Storage
         Manager installed on a system, before you can upgrade it to a newer 
         version using UXSPi, the following prerequisite must be met: 
         You can launch the prior version of MSM and discover the host 
         successfully. Otherwise the upgrade task using UXSPi may fail.
         
AMD Driver Pack current version is always undetectable
         UpdateXpress System Pack Installer does not detect the current
         version of the AMD Driver Pack. The resulting behavior is that
         the AMD Driver Pack update package is recommended for
         deployment on every execution of the UpdateXpress System Pack
         Installer, regardless of the current version.

Intel Driver Pack current version is always undetectable
         UpdateXpress System Pack Installer does not detect the current
         version of the Intel Driver Pack. The resulting behavior is
         that the Intel Driver Pack update package is recommended for
         deployment on every execution of the UpdateXpress System Pack
         Installer, regardless of the current version.

UpdateXpress System Pack Installer does not support onboard Intel NIC 
adapter firmware updates
         This limitation applies to some models of the System x3250 M3
         and iDataPlex(TM) dx360 M3, Intel PCIe adapters 49Y4230 and
         49Y4240, and the Intel 10Gb, dual port Ethernet Expansion Card
         CFFh for IBM BladeCenter, model 42C1810.

UpdateXpress System Pack Installer always installs the LSI driver
         If the hardware for a driver component is not present in the
         system or is disabled, the installer will not install the
         driver. The one exception is for the Windows LSI driver. This
         driver is always installed. You cannot physically remove the
         LSI chip because it is a standard component on the planar of
         the system. However, you can disable it. Thus, even in
         instances when it is disabled, the UpdateXpress System Pack
         Installer installs the LSI driver.

Broadcom NetXtreme firmware update requires version 3.58b or greater of 
the tg3 driver
         The Broadcom NetXtreme firmware update requires version 3.58b
         or greater of the tg3 driver to support the firmware update
         process. Version 3.58b or greater of the driver must be loaded
         and currently running before the firmware update will apply
         successfully.

Linux device driver updates require specific packages
         The Linux device driver update packs require the following
         packages to be installed: 
         *  rpm-build, perl, and bash for Redhat Enterprise Linux.
         *  perl and bash for SuSE Enterprise Linux.


ServeRAID 8i, 8k/8k-l, 8s, 8e and 7t Firmware is only detected on 
Windows when the Filter driver is active
         Detection of ServeRAID 8i, 8k/8k-l, 8s, 8e and 7t Firmware
         versions requires a filter driver. This filter driver is
         installed as part of the ServeRAID Manager. It is also
         installed whenever the ServeRAID firmware update packages from
         the UpdateXpress System Packs are installed. The ServeRAID
         firmware update packages return an error code when executed
         without the filter driver installed. The Windows system
         requires a reboot before this driver becomes active. Re run the
         ServeRAID firmware update to complete the update.

7e SATA/SCSI HostRAID and 8e SAS/SATA HostRAID controllers are not 
supported on Windows 2008
         7e SATA/SCSI and 8e SAS/SATA HostRAID controllers are not
         supported on Windows Server 2008 (32bit / 64 bit). In addition,
         when running UXSPI on Server 2008 R2 to compare or update
         displays a dialog box stating "Integrated RAID On Chip (IROC)
         Library has stopped working". You must press "Close the
         Program" twice for the UXSPI to continue.

Firmware ibm_fw_hdd_sas-1.10.01_linux_32-64 displays different versions
         The SAS/SATA Hard Disk Drive (HDD) Update Program incorrectly
         reports different versions of the installed version and update
         version of the firmware. The following results are displayed in
         the comparison: 
         *  Update: SG9XCS2D200GEIBM (/dev/sg1)
         *  New Version: SA03SE6A
         *  Installed Version : SE6C


Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) and CPLD firmware updates require 
IPMI drivers
         BMC and CPLD firmware updates require installed and running
         IPMI drivers. If the IPMI drivers are not running, the BMC and
         CPLD firmware version cannot be detected and the online updates
         will not install.

Detection of Integrated Management Module (IMM) firmware version 
requires IPMI drivers
         IPMI drivers are required to detect the installed version of
         the IMM firmware. If the IPMI drivers are not running, the IMM
         firmware version cannot be detected. Installation of the IMM
         firmware update, however, is not dependent on the IPMI driver.

Gathering inventory may take 15 to 20 minutes when Linux Remote 
Supervisor Adapter II (RSA II) daemon is installed without Linux RSA II 
card installed
         On Linux systems, the gathering inventory phase of the install
         can take as long as 18-20 minutes when the system has the RSA
         II daemon installed without having the RSA II card installed.
         The updates you select are still applied after the delay in the
         gathering inventory phase.

On Windows, only active and loaded drivers associated with a device are 
detected
         For Windows systems, the UXSP Installer only detects the
         presence and version information for drivers that are active
         and loaded. A driver for a device may have been installed, but
         it will not be detected until the operating system associates
         the driver with its matching device. Drivers that are not
         associated with a matching device are not detected.

Different 'New Version' displayed before and after update
         The 'New Version' displayed before and after update may differ
         if the update is undetectable before updating. If the update is
         currently uninstalled or undetected, this field displays the
         version of the overall update package. If the update is
         detected, this field displays the individual update contained
         within the update package. The version of the overall update
         package may be different than the version of the individual
         update file.

Offline updates are not deployed
         Offline updates are not compared or deployed by UpdateXpress
         System Pack Installer. Offline updates are legacy firmware
         updates that cannot be directly applied from the OS.

x460 / MXE-460 / x3950 is only supported in single node
         Multi node support is not available for the x460 / MXE-460 /
         x3950. If you want to update an x460 / MXE-460 / x3950 multi
         node, you must break apart the nodes and update as single
         nodes.

Only BIOS versions of QLogic FC firmware are detected
         The QLogic Fibre Channel firmware update updates both QLogic FC
         BIOS and firmware. However, the firmware versions of QLogic
         Fibre Channel firmware updates are not reported. Only the BIOS
         versions of the QLogic FC firmware are detected. Comparing the
         update BIOS version to the installed BIOS version is sufficient
         to determine if the QLogic firmware is backlevel.

Only Firmware versions of LSI 1064, 1068 and 1078 firmware updates are 
detected
         The LSI 1064, 1068 and 1078 firmware update updates both LSI
         BIOS and firmware. However, the BIOS versions of LSI firmware
         updates are not reported. Only the firmware versions of the LSI
         firmware are detected. 

         For example, instead of displaying:

              Update            : SAS1064 Firmware
              New Version       : 1.23.81.00
              Installed Version : 1.23.81.00
         
              Update            : SAS1064 Bios
              New Version       : 6.18.01.00
              Installed Version : 6.18.01.00

         Only the firmware version is displayed:

              Update            : SAS1064 Firmware
              New Version       : 1.23.81.00
              Installed Version : 1.23.81.00


UpdateXpress System Pack Installer does not support AMM firmware update 
in some cases
         UpdateXpress System Pack Installer does not support the update
         of AMM firmware if the AMM firmware package build id is later
         than BPET54V and the installed AMM firmware build id is earlier
         than BPET62G.

Unable to read inserted CD-ROM while updates are being applied on 
Windows
         When applying updates on a Windows system using the UXSP
         Installer, a CD-ROM that is inserted into the CD-ROM drive
         cannot be read until all updates have completed. An existing
         CD-ROM that is in the drive can be read provided it is inserted
         before the updates start.

Emulex firmware update requires either the Corekit or the HBA Anywhere 
application
         Detection of Emulex firmware update and deployment of Emulex
         firmware update require either the Emulex CoreKit or the HBA
         Anywhere application to be already installed.

Emulex firmware version not detected on Windows when using Emulex 
Corekit
         UpdateXpress System Pack Installer cannot detect the Emulex
         firmware version installed on Windows when the Emulex Corekit
         is used to install the device driver and utility. For firmware
         detection to work correctly, you have to install Emulex
         HBAnyware application utility.

On LS21/LS41, the LSI 1064 onboard cannot be distinguished from 
expansion card
         On the LS21/LS41, the LSI 1064 onboard cannot be distinguished
         from the LSI 1064 expansion adapter. This means that when
         running in compare or update mode each installed LSI 1064
         adapter is displayed under each LSI 1064 update that is
         present. The version comparison is performed and depending on
         the versioning, the update may be incorrectly determined to be
         backlevel and may be selected. The updates themselves can
         distinguish between the adapters and will flash the correct
         firmware on each adapter.

Acquisition of Windows updates does not distinguish between the 
different versions of Windows
         Windows 2000, Windows 2003 and Windows 2008 updates are
         organized in a single Windows UXSP. Similarly the tool acquires
         all Windows updates (either UXSP or latest individual) for a
         given system by selecting the OS of Windows. This means that
         although Windows updates for a given system can be acquired,
         there may not be updates for the Windows version of interest.
         For example the acquired UXSP may support Windows 2000 and
         Windows 2003, but not support Windows 2008. You may wish to use
         this UXSP to update on Windows 2008. In that case you will get
         an error code of 33, "Cannot find UpdateXpress System Pack XML
         file for this Machine Type and Operating System."

There is no built-in timeout for completion of updates
         UpdateXpress System Pack Installer does not require that
         updates complete within a certain time period. If an update
         does not end UpdateXpress System Pack Installer will run
         indefinitely.

The LSI HBA expansion card is undetectable on HS20 (8843) and LS20 blade 
servers
         The LSI HBA expansion card (LSI 1064) is undetectable on HS20
         (8843) and LS20 blade servers. The LSI HBA expansion card
         update can still be applied even if the installed version is
         not detected.

The version number is not reported for the RSA 2 firmware
         Only the build ID of RSA 2 firmware is reported. The version
         number is not reported. For example:
         [ ]  IBM System x3350 Remote Supervisor Adapter II Update
              Severity          : Initial Release
              Reboot            : Reboot Required to take effect
              Update ID         : ibm_fw_rsa2_k3ep05a_linux_i386
              New Version       : 1.00 (K3EP05A)
              Installed Version :      (K3EP05A)


The version number is not always reported for Diagnostics
         The build number of the Diagnostics is always reported; the
         version number is not always reported.

The build number of the BMC and IMM are not always reported
         The version number of the Baseboard Management Controller (BMC)
         or Integrated Management Module (IMM) is always reported; the
         build number is not always reported.

8e SATA Controller will not be detected in Windows 2008 environment. 
          Don't try to run the update for this adapter because it will
         fail. This is a limitation with the Adaptec HRCCONF tool.

Second OS image not always updated when using an ICPM card.
         If the tftp server is set up on the AMM that the ICPM card is
         plugged into, UpdateXpress System Pack Installer updates the
         boot image and only one OS image. You ee the error, "Could not
         find update file" when the product tries to update the second
         OS image. The AMM version must be at least BPET42D to properly
         configure the ICPM card.

UXSPI only supports updating two files for legacy Management Modules.
         UpdateXpress System Pack Installer only supports updating two files for 
         legacy Management Modules.
         
Cobia card on Windows 64-bit will require a 64-bit native build Broadcom 
CIM provider.
         
Device driver update returns code 1603
         This indicates a general device driver update problem, such as
         the current device driver is a higher level than the one
         available in the update, or the hardware is not present. No
         further action is required.

Firmware update from bootable media is not supported for System x3450
         For the System x3450, firmware must be updated from within an
         installed operating system.

Using Windows Server 2003 with IPv6 requires site-local addresses to 
provide the file-sharing capabilities required by UXSPI
         Therefore link-local and global IPv6 addresses are not
         supported as remote targets.

Additional considerations when using VMWare ESX remote functions
         To use the remote functions of VMWare ESX, you must make the
         following changes: 

         Enable SSH access for the root user
                  By default, SSH access is blocked for the root user.
                  To enable it, edit the file /etc/ssh/sshd_config to
                  change the value of PermitRootLogin to Yes.

         Open firewall ports on the ESX host to allow access for a 
         service or management agent
                  By default, the ESX host blocks firewall ports used by
                  the service and management agents. You must open these
                  ports to allow the agent to access the server. To
                  allow access: 
                  1. Log on to the VI client and select the server from
                     the inventory panel.
                  2. Click the Configuration tab and select Security
                     Profile.
                  3. Select the SSH Client and SSH Server check box and
                     click OK.


         Libusb_support must be enabled to allow update of the RSA2 
         driver on VMWare 4.0
                  You must enable this support manually prior to running
                  the update. To enable support, run the command
                  esxcfg-module -s libusb_support=1 usb.o and then
                  restart the machine for the change to take effect.

         Configure the firewall to allow uEFI/DSA/IMM updates on 
         uEFI/IMM systems
                  To perform these updates, you must configure the
                  firewall to ensure that the flash utilities can
                  connect to the IMM. 

                  On VMware 3.5 systems: 
                  1. esxcfg-firewall --allowIncoming
                  2. esxcfg-firewall --allowOutgoing
                  3. ifconfig cdceth0 169.254.x.x
                  4. route del -net 169.254.0.0 netmask 255.255.0.0 lo
                  5. Then ping 169.254.95.118 to ensure that you can
                     connect to the IMM using the Ethernet over USB
                     interface.

                  For VMware 4.0 systems: 
                  1. esxcfg-firewall --allowIncoming
                  2. esxcfg-firewall --allowOutgoing
                  3. esxcfg-vswitch -l
                  4. esxcfg-vswitch -L vusb0 vSwitch0
                  5. ifconfig vswif0 169.254.xxx.xxx netmask 255.255.0.0
                  6. Then ping 169.254.95.118 to ensure that you can
                     connect to the IMM using the Ethernet over USB
                     interface.


LSI BUS messages appear during inventory gathering
         An LSI provider used by the UpdateXpress System Pack Installer
         to gather LSI adapter data during inventory collection prints
         many lines of LSI BUS messages to the screen. These messages
         can be ignored.

The Intel-based Gigabit Ethernet Drivers for Windows v14.0 does not 
support Windows Server 2008 R2
         The Intel-based Gigabit Ethernet Drivers for Windows
         (intc_dd_nic_14.0_windows_32-64.exe) does not support Windows
         Server 2008 R2. If you attempt to run this driver, you get an
         error stating that the install did not succeed. The driver
         updates that are in v14.0 are already bundled with Windows
         Server 2008 R2 so it is not necessary to run this update.

Attempting to backlevel Broadcom from 2.1.1a shows undetected
         Broadcom packages 2.1.0c and earlier cannot determine version
         data if 2.1.1a has already been applied. However the 2.1.0c
         packages can still be applied and version detection is
         corrected.

UXSPI Acquisition function requires access through firewall
         To acquire support files from the IBM website, UXSPI requires
         access through the local firewall. You must open HTTP port 80
         and HTTPS port 443 in order to use the acquisition function.

ServeRAID B5015 controller not detected on System x3850 X5 with SLES 11 
SP1
         The UpdateXpress System Pack Installer cannot detect the
         ServeRAID B5015 controller on System x3850 X5 servers running
         SLES 11 Service Pack 1.

ServeRAID B5015 firmware version not detected on RHEL 5 U5, RHEL 6
         The UpdateXpress Ssytem Pack Installer cannot detect the
         firmware version of the ServeRAID B5015 when running on RHEL 5
         U5 or RHEL 6.

Broadcom adapters are not supported with VMware ESX 4.0, 4.1
         The UpdateXpress System Pack Installer cannot detect the
         firmware of Broadcom adapters in VMware ESX 4.0 or 4.1
         environments.
         
Brocade firmware version cannot be detected on RHEL 6.2, RHEL 5.8, SLES 
11.2, and ESX 4.1 
         The Brocade firmware version displays as undetectable from the
         UpdateXpress System Pack Installer in RHEL 6.2, RHEL 5.8, SLES
         11.2, and ESX 4.1. This is a limitation of the Brocade CIM
         provider version 3.0.1.0. There is no known workaround.

UXSPI requires up to 2 GB of free memory to guarantee firmware update
         If the operating system is booted from USB or CD/DVD, UXSPI
         requires up to 2 GB of free memory to guarantee an update of
         the firmware. The operating system itself uses memory space,
         requiring that the memory size should be 4 GB or more.

USB key can be lost during update of IMM firmware via USB key
         When updating the Integrated Management Module (IMM) firmware
         using a USB key, updating the firmware causes the IMM to
         unmount the USB key, making it unavailable for any remaining
         updates. 

         To avoid this problem when updating IMM firmware from a USB
         key, perform the firmware update as a separate update, or
         perform any other updates prior to updating the IMM firmware.


UXSPI hangs when attempting to perform updates on System x3950 X5 type 
7146
         The System x3950 X5 might hang after you select Updates from
         the TUI or GUI menus, returning an unrecognizable error. This
         can be caused by the failure of one or more of the solid-state
         drives installed in the device. 

         If you encounter this error, perform diagnostics on the
         solid-state drives and replace any failed ones.


Emulex 10Gb Fibre Channel adapter is not supported.
         The Emulex 10Gb Fibre Channel adapter is not supported by
         UXSPI.

libstdc++.so.6 is required for UXSPI updates
         The module libstdc++.so.6, which is installed by default by
         VMware 3.5 and other operating systems, is required by UXSPI.
         If this module was not installed when the operating system was
         installed, or was subsequently uninstalled, you receive the
         following error: Error while loading shared libraries:
         libstdc++.so.6: cannot open shared object file: No such file or
         directory, and updates will fail. 

         If you encounter this error, ensure that libstdc++.so.6 is
         installed on the target system and try running updates again.


Some systems cannot recognize some USB keys
         Some IBM systems do not recognize SanDisk SDCZ36 4 and 8 Gb USB
         keys. If you experience difficulty using one of these keys, try
         a different type of USB key or create your bootable media using
         a CD or DVD.

Firefox displays warning for unresponsive script when performing remote 
updates
         When using remote access through the Advanced Management Module
         (AMM) to perform updates remotely using the UXSPI GUI, Firefox
         may display a warning indicating that a script on the page is
         busy or may have stopped responding, and give you the option to
         stop the script or to continue. This behavior is caused by
         network latency through the AMM. Select Continue and allow the
         script to continue running. The update will complete normally.

Updates fail to complete when "New Hardware Found" pop-ups displayed
         Before deploying updates, you should close any pop-up or dialog
         boxes opened by the operating system. In particular, you must
         close any "New Hardware Found" pop-ups displayed by Windows.
         Until these are closed, Windows will not allow the new hardware
         to be updated, causing UXSPI to hang.

Brocade 10Gb Dual port combined network adapter driver mismatch
         When using UXSPI to update systems with the Brocade installed,
         you might receive a message warning that the BCU and driver
         versions do not match. This is a known issue and can be safely
         ignored. UpdateXpress Service Pack Installer (UXSPi) cannot
         detect the Brocade firmware version if the Brocade driver
         version is not equal to the provider version used by UXSPi. If
         you are using UXSPi 4.40, install Brocade driver 2.3.0.0. If
         you are using UXSPi 5.00, install Brocade driver 3.0.0.0.

Unnecessary SEPs included in download for System x3850 X5 machine type 
7145
         When downloading System Enablement Packs (SEPs) for the System
         x3850 X5, type 7145, UXSPI does not filter versions of the SEP
         designed to work with previous versions of UXSPI, which causes
         them to be downloaded along with the current version. These
         SEPs will not be used and can be safely ignored.

64-bit Linux requires compat-libstdc++
         To run 32-bit binaries and utilities, including UXSPI, 64-bit
         Linux operating systems require the compatibility library
         compat-libstdc++. You can use the following command to
         determine whether this library is installed: 
         rpm -qa | grep compat-libstdc++-296 

Updating Mellanox may require you to manually uninstall rpm
         If a Mellanox update fails, manually remove the rpm files from
         the Mellanox update log. The mellanox log path and file name
         can be found in the uxspi log.

Log files cannot be saved to a USB key in a remote console
         When performing updates to a target system from a remote
         console, UXSPI is unable to save the resulting log files to a
         USB key connected to the remote console.

MPT2SAS firmware update causes UXSPI exit on Linux
         When using the UpdateXpress System Pack Installer (UXSPi)
         command-line interface (CLI) to update the IBM HBA/LSI on-board
         6Gb firmware in Linux operating systems, UXSPi will exit
         without an "Installation Successful" message after performing
         this update. The SAS firmware is installed correctly but the
         updates (firmware and drivers for other devices in the system)
         after it are not executed. This issue does not affect the UXSPi
         Graphical User Interface (GUI) or the individual update for the
         IBM HBA/LSI on-board 6 Gb adapter.

UXSPI cannot inventory the backup firmware versions for iMM and uEFI
         UXSPI is unable to detect the firmware versions in the backup
         banks for iMM and uEFI. UXSPI always reports the firmware
         version for the primary banks of these devices.

UXSPI cannot determine the machine type when multiple Samba shares are 
mounted on SLES 11.1 x86
         When a system running SLES 11.1 x86 has multiple Samba shares
         mounted, UXSPI is unable to determine the machine type of the
         system.

Windows 2003 File and print sharing not supported over IPv6
         UXSPI does not support the use of Windows 2003 File and print
         sharing when using IPv6 addressing.

RSA II version is not detected when running UXSPI from bootable media
         When running from media created by the Bootable Media Creator,
         UXSPI is unable to detect the RSA II version on the target
         system.

Brocade driver 3.0 or higher required to detect Brocade firmware version
         In order to detect the firmware version of installed Brocade
         cards, you must upgrade your Brocade driver to 3.0 or higher.

UXSPI continues to run remotely when interrupted locally
         When UXSPI is run on a remote system, it is launched in a
         separate process from the one on the local machine. When CTRL+C
         is used to interrupt the local process, the remote process
         continues to run. This can result in incomplete updates and
         instability on the remote system. If you must interrupt the
         local process, log on to the remote system and manually stop
         the UXSPI process there as well.

Power saving function not supported for ESXi updates
         The Power Saving function is not supported for VMware ESXi
         updates.

UXSPI runs slowly on multi-node Windows systems 
         When initially running UXSPI on a multi-node system running
         Windows 2011, it can take up to 15 minutes for UXSPI to start.
         This does not impact the update function.

Broadcom 10Gb Base T dual port NIC not supported with RHEL 5
         The Broadcom 10Gb Base T dual port NIC is not supported when
         using UXSPI with RHEL 5.

Abnormal GUI when saving logs in a bootable environment
         When saving log files in a bootable environment, the layout of
         buttons in the GUI might not be consistent. The layout of
         buttons can change from instance to instance, even when using
         the same environment.

Format mismatch for some LSI and ServeRAID adapters
         When comparing the installed version of firmware for some LSI
         and ServeRAID adapters using UXSPI, the installed version of
         firmware might be displayed in a different format than the
         version displayed by the System Update Package XML file. For
         example, the installed version might be displayed as: 
         07.19.00.00_07.18.01.05

         while the version in the System Update Package is displayed as:
         07.19.00.00

         This is a difference in display only and does not affect the
         compare function.

Duplicate IP addresses when updating IMM, uEFI, and DSA
         When using UXPSI to update IMM, uEFI, and DSA, you might
         encounter IP address duplication. This is because some NICs use
         IP addresses 169.254.95.118 or 169.254.95.120. These IP
         addresses are reserved for IMM LAN-over-USB.

UXSPI fails to update Emulex 8Gb FC Single-port HBA on vSphere 5.0 U1
          UXSPI fails to update Emulex 8Gb FC Single-port HBA on vSphere
         5.0 Update 1 when it's with Emulex 4Gb FC Dual-port PCI-e HBA
         in the same system.

Broadcom firmware update on ESXi is only supported on vSphere 5.0 U1 and 
vSphere 5.1 with patch
          UXSPI doesn't support Broadcom firmware update on vSphere 5.0
         U1 and vSphere 5.1. It works only when the customized patch is 
         installed. 

Some parameters on updating IO module have some restrictions 
         The values of UXSPI parameters,including --io-uploadpath,--mm-file,
         --mm-file2, --io-file,and --io-file2, are URL format strings. 
         The username,the password,and the file path of the URL cannnot contain 
         the blank character and some special characters, including ':','@'. 
    
UXSPi requires rebooting VMWare ESXi after a loop of ESW firmware update      
         It's required that users reboot VMWare ESXi every time after finishing
	 one loop when using UXSPi to flash iMM/uEFI/DSA on VMWare ESXi in loops. 
         
Make sure switch telnet access is enabled before updating it
         Telnet access of some switches are disable by default, you should 
         change it to enable manually.

Mounted directory will be rejected when running  UXSPI on SLES10 
         The specified mount directory will be unmounted when running UXSPI on SLES10 
         Keep the current working directory at the mount point, such as 
         '/mnt' will prevent unmount the related network when running UXSPI. 
         
Ensure telnet connection enabled and password unchanged for Cisco switches 
         If users click "Reset the switch to factory defaults" on management 
         page for Cisco Switch, please make sure that telnet connection is
         enabled and the password isn't changed.
         
Brocade Device Driver doen't support SLES11.3
        Neither inbox driver or the latest Brocade device driver package can't
        work on SLES11.3. 

Firmware update for a switch may fail when the IP address of the switch is 
allocated by DHCP
         UpdateXpress System Pack Installer requires the IP address of a switch 
         is stable during the firmware update process. If the IP address is 
         changed after reboot, UXSPI will fail to reconnect to the switch and 
         return an error.
         
Requirement when updating x-FW in out-of-band way on Flex system
         If you want to update x-FW in out-of-band way on Flex system, please
         create IPMI account via IMM web page and make sure the account is the 
         same as CMM login account on Flex system. 
         
UXSPI doesn't support running in bootable environment on which is uEFI boot
         BoMC doesn't support creating the media to boot on the systems which                  
         only support uEFI boot. Now BoMC only supports legacy boot. Therefore
         UXSPI doesn't support running in bootable environment on which is uEFI
         boot.

Detection of Mellanox firmware version on windows requires Mellanox 
Firmware Tools (MFT) 
         Mellanox Firmware Tools (MFT) are required to detect the installed 
         version of the Mellanox firmware on windows. If the MFT is not 
         installed, the  Mellanox Firmware version cannot be detected. 
         Installation of the Mellanox firmware update, however, is not 
         dependent on the MFT.

OpenSSL on ESXi4.1,ESXi5.0 and ESXi5.1 can only support TLS level 1.0.
         OpenSSL on ESXi4.1,ESXi5.0 and ESXi5.1 can only support TLS level 1.0.
         So if user set IMM TLS min level to 1.1 or 1.2, TC will fail to get and
         set IMM configuration through those ESXi system.
         
UXSPi v9.50 and subsequent releases do not support Windows 2003
         UXSPi v9.50 and subsequent releases do not support Windows 2003. You 
         can use UXSPi 9.41 on Windows 2003 systems. The file is available for 
         download from IBM Support Fix Central web page.
         
There is no QLogic adapter support for the IBM customized VMWare ESXi 4.1 image
         There are no QLogic drivers and there is no provider for these adapters:
            QLogic 10Gb Virtual Fabric Adapter for IBM BladeCenter
            Qlogic QLE8262 Dual Port 10GbE SFP+ Adapter
            Qlogic MEZZ 16Gb 2p FC Adapter

         There is currently no support for them on the IBM customized VMWare 
         ESXi 4.1 image. In addition, even if you manually install the Qlogic 
         driver and provider, there is still no support. 
         
Detection of Emulex firmware version requires the installation of Emulex 
OneCommand Manager
         Emulex OneCommand Manager (core version) is required for detecting the 
         installed version of Emulex firmware. If it is not installed, the 
         Emulex firmware can not be detected. The installation of Emulex 
         irmware, however, is not dependent on Emulex OneCommand Manager. 
         
RETAIN tips

The following tips in IBM's Remote Technical Assistance Information
Network (RETAIN) apply to this release of UXSPI. Please visit the IBM
support pages to view these tips: 
*  H202233 MPT2SAS FW UPDATE CAUSES UXSPI EXIT ON LINUX OSES
*  H202234 7164: UXSPI LIST MULTIPLE UEFI UPDATES
*  H202235 VMWARE ESXI 4.1: NO BROADCOM/LSI/EMULEX UPDATE SUPPORT
*  H202237 SERVERAID B5015 SSD CONTROLLER FIRMWARE VERSION UNDETECTED
*  H202238 7164: NO ESW UPDATE SUPPORT ON VMWARE ESXI4.1U1
*  H202239 BROCADE OPTION DIVICE DRIVER UPDATE FAILS EVERY OTHER TIME
*  H202240 MULTI UPDATE INSTANCE WILL CAUSE VMWARE ESXI UPDATE FAIL
*  H202241 IMM UPDATE OPTION MISSED WHEN INSTALL UXSP
*  H202242 ONLY DETECTED ONE INSTALLED LSI 1068E RAID CARD OF THE TWO
*  H202243 GUI DOESN'T MATCH WITH CLI
*  H203984 2583: UXSPI UNABLE TO DETECT HDD FW VERSION ON WIN 2008 & R2
*  H204993: PYTHON SCRIPT HANGS CALLING UXSPI TO UPDATE UEFI TO 173V
*  H205607: BROCADE ADAPTER SHOWS UNDETECTED IN THE VMWARE INVENTORY
*  H207166: UXSPI NEEDS REQUISITE XML FILE TO KNOW IF THE REQ WAS MET

5.2 Workarounds

The following known problems and workarounds are applicable to
UpdateXpress System Pack Installer, v9.63.



The error message: Exiting from the current instance is displayed when 
only one instance of UXSPI is running. 
         UXSPI uses semaphores to prevent UXSP Installer from running
         multiple instances at the same time. When UXSP Installer exits
         ungracefully, the semaphore might not get released, preventing
         another instance of UXSP Installer from starting. 

         Workaround: Run UXSP Installer from command line with
         -semdestroy option. Then, run UXSP Installer as usual.


UXSPI does not support running multiple copies of itself
         Because only one UXSPI tool should apply updates to a system at
         a time, UXSPI does not support running multiple UXSPI tools on
         a local system at once. You can, however, run the tools against
         multiple remote systems at once by using the -remote argument.

         Workaround:  To use the -remote argument, you must set the
         environment variable UXSPI_MULTIPLE_INSTANCE to 1 on the system
         running the tool. The following example demonstrates this
         argument for Windows for simultaneously running remote updates
         on servers 10.6.9.58 and 10.0 8.137:
         SET UXSPI_MULTIPLE_INSTANCE=1
         start cmd.exe /K uxspi500.exe up --remote=10.6.9.58  
         --remote-user=administrator --remote-password=passw0rd
         start cmd.exe /K uxspi500.exe up --remote=10.0 8.137 
         --remote-user=administrator --remote-password=passw0rd

          The following example demonstrates this argument for Linux for
         simultaneously running remote updates on servers 10.6.9.58 and
         10.0 8.137:
         export UXSPI_MULTIPLE_INSTANCE=1
         uxspi500.rhel5 up --remote=10.6.9.58  --remote-user=root 
         --remote-password=passw0rd > log1.txt 2>err1.txt &
         uxspi500.rhel5 up --remote=10.0 8.137 --remote-user=root 
         --remote-password=passw0rd > log2.txt 2>err2.txt &


Cancelling remote Update System Pack Installer instance might cancel 
other running Update System Pack Installers
         

         A remote Update System Pack Installer, started using the
         --remote option or from a third party connection package such
         as Windows Remote Desktop Connection, cannot detect another
         Update System Pack Installer instance running on the same
         remote system. Running multiple instances on the same system is
         supported; however, clicking Cancel from the graphical user
         interface terminates all Update System Pack Installers
         instances running on the remote system.

         Workaround: It is preferred that you do not run multiple
         instances of Update System Pack Installer on the same remote
         system. If you do, manually check if any other administrators
         are running Update System Pack Installer before clicking
         Cancel.


Acquisition of latest updates for a new machine type does not update 
UXSPI supported machine types list
         The list of supported machine types in the UpdateXpress System
         Pack Installer GUI includes all machine types supported at the
         time UXSPI was released. New machine types are added to the
         list when an UpdateXpress System Pack is released for the new
         machine type, or when the installer is updated. Acquiring
         updates for a new machine type does not update the supported
         machine types list in the GUI.

         Workaround: Acquire the UpdateXpress System Pack for the new
         machine type, restart the GUI to update the supported machine
         types list, and then acquire the latest updates for the new
         machine type.


Unable to execute UpdateXpress System Pack Installer from USB key
         Some Linux operating systems (for example, SLES 10)
         automatically mount USB devices with the noexec parameter. This
         parameter disallows any user to run a program directory from
         the mounted device.

         Workaround: To run a file from a USB device in this
         configuration, either copy the entire UXSP to your hard disk
         drive, and execute from that location, or remount the USB
         device with the exec parameter. You can accomplish the second
         option by first unmounting the USB device by issuing: umount
         /mnt/usbkey as root (assuming /mnt/usbkey is the mount point of
         your USB device). You can then remount the device by specifying
         the mount command with the exec  parameter. For example: mount
         /dev/sdb1 /mnt/usbkey -o exec).


Linux drivers are not active immediately
         The Linux device drivers require activation. The UpdateXpress
         System Pack Installer loads the new driver into the file
         system, but the operating system does not use the new driver
         until it is loaded.

         Workaround: To modify this behavior, remove the existing driver
         with the rmmod command and load the new driver with the
         modprobe command. Alternatively, the new driver can become
         active upon reboot of the system.


Linux LSI Logic SCSI 1020/1030/1064/1068 Controllers are not detected 
after install
         The Linux device drivers require activation. The UpdateXpress
         System Pack Installer loads the new driver into the file
         system, but the operating system does not use the new driver
         until it is loaded.

         Workaround: The mptctl driver must be loaded. Run the lsmod
         command to verify that mptcl is loaded. If it is not loaded,
         run the following command to load the driver: modprobe mptctl.


Linux version of UpdateXpress System Pack Installer requires 
compatibility libraries
         The 64-bit UXSP Installer requires the compatibility libraries.
         However, the compatibility libraries are not installed by
         default in RHEL4. Thus, when you execute the installer, it
         returns an error that says there is a missing library file.

         Workaround: Ensure you install the legacy software development
         packages.


The path passed to the local path argument (-l or --local) must not 
exceed 234 characters
         The local path argument cannot exceed 234 characters

         Workaround: Copy the UpdateXpress System Pack to a directory
         that is less than 234 characters.


Firmware updates for Broadcom network card on Linux or CD/DVD and 
USB-Key bootable-media are not applied when the network card is not up 
and active
         On Linux, a Broadcom network interface controller must be up
         and active for firmware Paiutes to be applied. Also, on Linux
         and when updating from the bootable-media each network Port
         must be connected to a switch or router.

         Workaround: Ensure the network interface controller that you
         are updating is up and active for each port and connected to a
         switch or router.


UXSP Installer does not always start on Linux systems
         In rare cases the UXSP installer may fail to successfully start
         on Linux. In those cases the following error message is sent to
         stderr:
         ----------------------------------------------------------
         WARNING! This package doesn't appear to match your system.
         It is likely that it will not properly execute.
         The following information was determined for your system:
         
         distribution = Red Hat
         release = 4
         processor architecture = Intel 64-bit"
         ----------------------------------------------------------

          

         Distribution, release and processor architecture will vary to
         match the Linux system. The installer will return an error code
         of 1.

         Workaround: Restart the Installer. It will succeed the next
         time.


USB key fails on RHEL5
         When a USB key is inserted on RHEL5, by default it is mounted
         as noexec. This means no application can run, including the
         UpdateXpress System Pack Installer.

         Workaround: Override the default noexec mount option. For
         example, mount a USB key device of /dev/sdc1 as /media/disk. To
         do so, perform the following steps:
         umount /dev/sdc1 
         mkdir /media/disk 
         mount -o exec /dev/sdc1 /media/disk


User Account Control (UAC) on Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008 
prevents the installer from running without popup
         The UAC is a security control that normally prompts you before
         running application at a privileged level on Windows Vista and
         Windows Server 2008.

         Workaround: To disable this feature for the UpdateXpress System
         Pack Installer, launch the ibm_utl_uxspi_9.63_winsrvr_32-64.exe
         command prompt with elevated privileges. 
         1. Right-click ibm_utl_uxspi_9.63_winsrvr_32-64.exe and select
            Run as Administrator.
         2. Click Yes at the UAC prompt command window.

          

         UpdateXpress System Pack Installer is launched with a full
         administrator security token.


Broadcom firmware is not detected or updated from CD/DVD bootable-media 
on x3550 system
         On x3550 system, the CD/DVD bootable-media may not detect the
         Broadcom firmware version or successfully apply the firmware
         update.

         Workaround: Use USB key instead of CD/DVD bootable-media or
         ensure the Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) is updated to
         version 1.27 build level GFBT43A or later and reboot the
         system.


Unable to boot from USB Key bootable-media on systems with onboard SATA 
drives
         Systems that only support onboard SATA drives, systems such as
         x336 and x306m systems, fail to boot the USB Key
         bootable-media. Systems using ServeRAID adapters, or with LSI
         onboard 1064 or higher, do not experience this problem.

         Workaround: Create a CD bootable-media and apply the firmware
         updates from CD-ROM instead of the USB key.


Booting from USB Key bootable-media on a x3755 may display video error 
messages
         When booting from USB Key bootable-media on a x3755, you may
         see video error messages about the video resolution. The error
         is displayed for 30 seconds unless you press the Enter key.

         Workaround: Ignore this error message.


Bootable media might not display all updates in the list view
         The Bootable media Text User Interface (TUI) might not display
         all the updates in the list view when the total number of
         updates in the list view exceeds the size of the display
         screen. This is particularly true for the System x3755, which
         displays a small screen size in the Bootable media text user
         interface mode. 

         Workaround: Toggle to see the full update detail list using the
         Full View selection.


Additional requirements for Windows 2003 remote server updates in IPv6 
networks
         To perform remote server updates of a Windows 2003 server in an
         IPv6 network, you must perform the following steps: 
         1. Set up the IPv6 network on the target server. Refer to
            Miscrosoft Step-by-Step guide at:
            http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyID=fd7e1354-3a3b-43fd-955f-11edd39551d7&displaylang=en
         2. Enable file sharing connections over the IPv6 on the target
            server. To do this, add a key named
            DisableStrictNameChecking to the registry:
            HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\LanmanServer\Parameters,
            with type REG_DWORD and value=1.


DSA (diags) firmware is not always installed if the IMM is downlevel
         Because the DSA firmware update is run before the IMM firmware
         update, if the IMM firmware is too downlevel, the DSA firmware
         update fails.

         Workaround: Run the update twice. The first update will bring
         the IMM firmware to the current level, which allows the second
         update to update the DSA firmware. A reboot is not required
         between the updates.


Update of IBM HBA/LSI Onboard 6Gb firmware exits CLI
         When using the UpdateXpress Service Pack Installer (UXSPi)
         Command Line Interface (CLI) to update the IBM HBA/LSI on-board
         6Gb firmware in Linux distributions (e.g., RHEL5 and RHEL4),
         UXSPi will exit without an "Installation Successful" message
         after performing this update. The SAS firmware is installed
         correctly but the updates(firmware and drivers for other
         devices in the system) after it are not executed. This issue
         does not affect the UXSPi Graphical User Interface (GUI) or the
         individual update for the IBM HBA/LSI on-board 6 Gb adapter.

Full corequisite checking is not performed when using CLI
         When specifying update packages from the command line, UXSPI
         does not perform full checking of corequisite packages.
         Specifically, while both pre- and co-requisites are checked for
         the current package, if a package that is a prerequisite of the
         current package also has a corequisite, this is not checked. In
         rare instances, this can cause the update to fail. This issue
         does not affect the UXSPI GUI.

         Workaround: To avoid this issue, you must manually select any
         corequisite packages required by packages that are
         prerequisites of the one you are installing. Alternately, you
         can use the GUI.


RHEL 6 requires installation of SOAPpy
         To function properly on RHEL 6, UXSPI requires that the
         full-featured SOAP library for Python (SOAPpy) be installed
         manually after operating system installation. 

         To install this library and all prerequisites manually, follow
         these steps: 
         1. Insert the RHEL 6 installation CD.
         2. On the target system, select Add/Remove Software.
         3. In the search box, enter lib and click on Search to bring up
            a list of available libraries.
         4. Select the Full-Featured SOAP Library for Python
            (SOAPpy-0.11.6-11.el6) and accept all of the prerequisites.
         5. Click Apply to install the files.


Running UXSPI remotely from a USB key via AMM can take an extremely long 
time to boot
         When running UXSPI from a USB via an Advanced Management Module
         (AMM), boot times can be as long as 20-30 minutes. This is a
         limitation of this scenario.

         Workaround: To avoid this problem, create a CD or DVD image of
         the boot media for use in remote scenarios requiring the AMM.
         Boot time using CD or DVD media is analogous to boot time when
         running locally on the target system.


Undetected failure when two clients update the same VMware ESXi target
         When separate UXSPI clients attempt to remotely update the same
         VMware ESXi target system, both updates will fail, but no error
         is reported.

         Workaround: Allow only one UXSPI client to perform a remote
         update to a VMware ESXi system at a time.

UXSPI fails to update DSA package 
         UXSPI fails to update the DSA package when the Diagnostics
         option is set in the Boot Options menu in uEFI.

         Workaround: Remove Diagnostics from the Boot Options menu and
         AC-Cycle the system before flashing DSA with UXSPI. Restarting
         the system does work. You must verify that Diagnostics is not
         in Boot Options before flashing DSA.

UXSPI doesn't support upload a directory to tftp server
        Due to the limitation of tftp server, UXSPI doesn't support upload a 
        directory to tftp server. Therefore, if the payload of an IO module 
        firmware is a directory, UXSPI doesn't support to update it automatically
        via tftp server.
        
        Workaround: Upload the directory to tftp server manually and the use 
        option "--io-file" to update the firmware. Alternatively, use ftp or sftp
        server.

UXSPI fails to device driver for IBM Flex System FC5022 2-port 16Gb FC Adapter 
in CLI mode
        UXSPI fails to update the device driver for IBM Flex System FC5022 
        2-port 16Gb FC Adapter in CLI mode on Windows.
         
        Workaround: Update the device driver with UXSPI in GUI mode.

UXSPI sometimes fails to update IMM on vSphere 5.0,5.0 U1 and 5.1
        UXSPI sometimes fails to update IMM on vSphere 5.0,5.0 U1 and 5.1 due to
        the operation system IPMI deadlock issue on on vSphere 5.0,5.0 U1 and 5.1.
        vSphere 5.1 U1 and 5.0 U2  are preferred.

Chapter 6. Notices

This information was developed for products and services offered in the
U.S.A.

IBM may not offer the products, services, or features discussed in this
document in other countries. Consult your local IBM representative for
information on the products and services currently available in your
area. Any reference to an IBM product, program, or service is not
intended to state or imply that only that IBM product, program, or
service may be used. Any functionally equivalent product, program, or
service that does not infringe any IBM intellectual property right may
be used instead. However, it is the user's responsibility to evaluate
and verify the operation of any non-IBM product, program, or service.

IBM may have patents or pending patent applications covering subject
matter described in this document. The furnishing of this document does
not grant you any license to these patents. You can send license
inquiries, in writing, to: 

IBM Director of Licensing
IBM Corporation
North Castle Drive
Armonk, NY 10504-1785
U.S.A. 

For license inquiries regarding double-byte (DBCS) information, contact
the IBM Intellectual Property Department in your country or send
inquiries, in writing, to: 

IBM World Trade Asia Corporation
Licensing
2-31 Roppongi 3-chome, Minato-ku
Tokyo 106-0032, Japan 

The following paragraph does not apply to the United Kingdom or any
other country where such provisions are inconsistent with local law:
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION PROVIDES THIS PUBLICATION
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Some states do not allow disclaimer of express or implied warranties in
certain transactions, therefore, this statement may not apply to you.

This information could include technical inaccuracies or typographical
errors. Changes are periodically made to the information herein; these
changes will be incorporated in new editions of the publication. IBM may
make improvements and/or changes in the product(s) and/or the program(s)
described in this publication at any time without notice.

Any references in this information to non-IBM websites are provided for
convenience only and do not in any manner serve as an endorsement of
those websites. The materials at those websites are not part of the
materials for this IBM product and use of those websites is at your own
risk.

IBM may use or distribute any of the information you supply in any way
it believes appropriate without incurring any obligation to you.

Licensees of this program who wish to have information about it for the
purpose of enabling: (i) the exchange of information between
independently created programs and other programs (including this one)
and (ii) the mutual use of the information which has been exchanged,
should contact:

IBM Corporation
Software Interoperability Coordinator, Department 49XA 
3605 Highway 52 N 
Rochester, MN 55901 
U.S.A.

Such information may be available, subject to appropriate terms and
conditions, including in some cases, payment of a fee.

The licensed program described in this document and all licensed
material available for it are provided by IBM under terms of the IBM
Customer Agreement, IBM International Program License Agreement or any
equivalent agreement between us.

Any performance data contained herein was determined in a controlled
environment. Therefore, the results obtained in other operating
environments may vary significantly. Some measurements may have been
made on development-level systems and there is no guarantee that these
measurements will be the same on generally available systems.
Furthermore, some measurements may have been estimated through
extrapolation. Actual results may vary. Users of this document should
verify the applicable data for their specific environment.

Information concerning non-IBM products was obtained from the suppliers
of those products, their published announcements or other publicly
available sources. IBM has not tested those products and cannot confirm
the accuracy of performance, compatibility or any other claims related
to non-IBM products. Questions on the capabilities of non-IBM products
should be addressed to the suppliers of those products.

All statements regarding IBM's future direction or intent are subject to
change or withdrawal without notice, and represent goals and objectives
only.

All IBM prices shown are IBM's suggested retail prices, are current and
are subject to change without notice. Dealer prices may vary.

This information is for planning purposes only. The information herein
is subject to change before the products described become available.

This information contains examples of data and reports used in daily
business operations. To illustrate them as completely as possible, the
examples include the names of individuals, companies, brands, and
products. All of these names are fictitious and any similarity to the
names and addresses used by an actual business enterprise is entirely
coincidental.

COPYRIGHT LICENSE:

This information contains sample application programs in source
language, which illustrate programming techniques on various operating
platforms. You may copy, modify, and distribute these sample programs in
any form without payment to IBM, for the purposes of developing, using,
marketing or distributing application programs conforming to the
application programming interface for the operating platform for which
the sample programs are written. These examples have not been thoroughly
tested under all conditions. IBM, therefore, cannot guarantee or imply
reliability, serviceability, or function of these programs.

Each copy or any portion of these sample programs or any derivative
work, must include a copyright notice as follows:

?your company name) (year). Portions of this code are derived from IBM
Corp. Sample Programs.

?Copyright IBM Corp. _enter the year or years_. All rights reserved.

If you are viewing this information softcopy, the photographs and color
illustrations may not appear.

5.1 Trademarks

IBM, the IBM logo, and ibm.com are trademarks or registered trademarks
of International Business Machines Corp., registered in many
jurisdictions worldwide. Other product and service names might be
trademarks of IBM or other companies. A current list of IBM trademarks
is available on the Web at "Copyright and trademark information" at
www.ibm.com/legal/copytrade.shtml.

Microsoft, Windows, Windows NT, and the Windows logo are trademarks of
Microsoft Corporation in the United States, other countries, or both.

Java and all Java-based trademarks are trademarks of Sun Microsystems,
Inc. in the United States, other countries, or both.

Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States, other
countries, or both.

Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other
countries.

Other company, product, or service names may be trademarks or service
marks of others.

