IBM Automatic Server Restart (ASR) Driver for Linux 2.6 kernel 
   Version 1.00



CONTENTS
--------
1.0  Overview
2.0  Change History
3.0  ASR Device Driver Installation Instructions for SLES 9
4.0  ASR User Space Monitor (/sbin/asrtask)
5.0  Web Sites and Support Phone Number
6.0  Trademarks and Notices
7.0  Disclaimer


1.0  Overview
-------------
     This README.TXT file is associated with the following 2 RPM files:

     - ibmasr-x.xx-y.i586.rpm
     - ibmasr-x.xx-y.src.rpm

        where x.xx is the version and y is the build of the rpm that you
        are installing.

     These RPM files will build and install Linux device drivers and/or support
     software for the following IBM hardware:

     - Automatic Server Restart (ASR) which is built onto the
       planar board some models of xSeries servers.  See the 
       IBM Support Web Site listed in Section 5 to determine 
       which models are supported.

     Only the "boxed set" versions of Linux are supported.  See Section
     3 for details.

2.0  Change History
-------------------
     2.1  Driver version 1.00
          Initial Release.


3.0  System Management Device Driver Installation Instructions for SUSE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
      3.1 Supported operating system versions:

           1) SUSE Linux Enterprize Server, version 9.0
              - Specific kernel versions tested
                2.6.5-7.5-SMP


      3.2 Installing on distributions without precompiled ASM kernel modules 
          or when uprading to a newer RPM:

          The kernel source needs to be configured. If you see errors such
          as "Kernel version mismatch" or "unresolved symbol errors"
          then configure the kernel sources.

          The system that the source rpm file is to be run on must have Linux
          development/build capability with the Linux kernel source installed
          and be properly configured for your hardware.  Specifically, the 
          kernel-source and gcc packages must be installed.

          After installing the kernel-source RPM, configure the kernel sources
          by executing the following commands:

          cd /usr/src/linux
          
          make clean

          make mrproper

          make cloneconfig

          make prepare-all

          The binary rpm file (ibmasr-x.xx-y.i586.rpm) contains open source
          code for the IBM Automatic Server Restart device driver for Linux.
          The file is designed for installation using the Red Hat RPM "build"
          system.  Executing the RPM utility against ibmasr-x.xx-y.i586.rpm
          will build and install a Linux driver that is customized for the
          Linux kernel version of the machine running the RPM utility.  This
          process also generates a binary rpm file that can be installed on
          any machine running the same Linux kernel and having the same
          hardware configuration.  The following steps must be executed in
          order to build and install the Linux ASR driver.
          
          NOTE: If this is an upgrade from an existing IBM Automatic Server
                Restart driver, then the previously installed ASR driver
                packages must first be removed.  Depending upon your system's
                configuration, you may see messages about missing files when
                running the "rpm -e" commands.  You may safely ignore those
                messages.  Type the following command at a shell prompt
                to remove the old driver source and binaries:

                rpm -e ibmasr


          To install the source rpm for SUSE, execute the following command:

                rpm -ivh ibmasr-x.xx-y.i586.rpm

                where x.xx is the version of the RPM that you are installing.


      3.3  Un-installing the ibmasr RPM.

           To uninstall the binary rpm, execute the following command:

                rpm -e ibmasr

           RPM will unload the driver, and remove all ibmasr-related files from
           your system.

           It is recommended that you uninstall the driver with -e before 
           installing a new version, rather than upgrading with RPM's 
           upgrade (-U) switch.

      3.4  Utility Programs.

           There are two useful utility programs installed by the RPM.

           ibmspup is a small script that loads ibmasr.o (the ASR device 
           driver).  The ibmspup script creates /dev/ibmasr which is the device
           file for the Automatic Server Restart hardware.

           NOTE: This module will not load if your system does not have the
                 supported hardware.

           ibmspdown unloads the modules.

           You must have root privileges to run these utilities.


4.0  ASR User Space Monitor (/sbin/asrtask)
---------------------------------------

      4.1  When the ibmasr rpm is installed, a user space application is also 
           installed in the /sbin directory and executed (asrtask). This task 
           is a keep alive task between the kernel driver (ibmasr) and user 
           space. We have found that on some combination/configurations of 
           distributions, server models and kernel versions that some panics 
           generated from user space will not cause the ASR device driver 
           to reboot the system even though user space is hung. Therfore we 
           added this user space application to watch for this particular 
           scenario. This application can be terminated via normal Linux 
           termination methods however user space will no longer be monitored. 
           Also if the asrtask is terminated in an unconventional manner such 
           that asrtask cannot clean up on exit the system may be rebooted. If
           this is the case the device driver will log a message in 
           /var/log/messages leaving a history of the cause of the reboot.


5.0  WEB Sites and Support Phone Number
---------------------------------------

      5.1  IBM Support Web Site:
           http://www.pc.ibm.com/support

      5.2  IBM Marketing eServer xSeries Web Site:
           http://www.pc.ibm.com/us/eserver/xseries

      5.3  If you have any questions about this update, or problems
           applying the update go to the following Help Center World
           Telephone Numbers URL:
           http://www.pc.ibm.com/qtechinfo/YAST-3P2QYL.html



6.0  Trademarks and Notices
---------------------------

      The following terms are trademarks of SUSE, Inc. in the United States
      and SUSE AG in Germany or other countries:

          SUSE


      The following terms are trademarks of Linus Torvalds in the United
      States or other countries or both:

          Linux


7.0  Disclaimer
---------------
      7.1  THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
           KIND.   IBM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, WHETHER EXPRESS OR
           IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
           WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
           MERCHANTABILITY WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION IN THIS
           DOCUMENT.   BY FURNISHING THIS DOCUMENT, IBM GRANTS NO
           LICENSES TO ANY PATENTS OR COPYRIGHTS.

      7.2  Note to Government Users

           Documentation related to restricted rights -- Use, duplication
           or disclosure is subject to restrictions set forth in GSA ADP
           Schedule Contract with IBM Corporation.


